---
title: "Xamarin SDK"
lang: en
layout: page
toc: false
keywords: LoopBack
tags:
sidebar: lb2_sidebar
permalink: /doc/en/lb2/Xamarin-SDK.html
summary:
---
{% include content/strongloop-labs.html lang=page.lang %}

{% include toc.html %}

## Introduction

[Xamarin](http://xamarin.com/) enables you to create iOS, Android, and Windows mobile client apps from a single C# codebase.

The LoopBack Xamarin SDK includes a tool that creates a Xamarin C# client API based on a LoopBack server backend API. The client API has a standard set of CRUD methods. 
In addition, relation methods and custom remote methods in your LoopBack API are generated by the tool as a corresponding C# API.
These are documented in [Xamarin client API](Xamarin-client-API.html).

{% include important.html content="

There are currently some restrictions on support for custom remote methods.
For example, methods with with several return arguments or with multiple body-type parameters are not currently supported.
Also, the SDK doesn't currently support custom remote methods that return a custom type not exposed in the API. 

" %}

<div class="sl-hidden"><strong>Non-public Information</strong><br>So, for example, if there's an inner model called "Email" that hasn't been defined as public in loopback's&nbsp;model-config.json, you can't write custom methods that return an Email model, simply because the
  SDK is not privy to it, it doesn't know there is such a model.</div>

{% include note.html content="

Although called Xamarin SDK, this SDK is compatible with any C# application.

" %}

### Download

Get the SDK from GitHub: [https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-sdk-xamarin](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-sdk-xamarin).

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-sdk-xamarin.git
```

A sample application is at [https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-example-xamarin](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-example-xamarin).

## Folders Overview

The SDK has the following folders:

* `C#` - Source code for the C# part of the generator and testers for the entire generator
  * The open-source of the C# part of the generator, accessed by LBXamarinSDK.sln.
    This project's end result is `LBXamarinSDKGenerator.dll` that is placed automatically as a post-build event inside the `bin` directory. 
* `bin` - contains the `lb-xm` CLI tool.
* `examples` - contains a LoopBack server and a Xamarin solution of an Android app using the SDK, and a second LoopBack server and a Visual Studio solution of a console application using the SDK.
* `lib`
* `test-server` -  testers for the lb-xm end result that the Testers act upon.

If you need only a functional SDK generator without source code or examples, you need only the folders lib, bin and the files in the root directory.

## Using the SDK generator

### Set up

On Windows or MacOS:

```shell
$ cd loopback-sdk-xamarin
$ npm install
```

{% include tip.html content="

By default the SDK generator command will not be installed on your path, so you must either run it from the `lbxamarinsdk-generator/bin`
directory or provide the full path to it on the command line.

" %}

### Generating a Xamarin API

To create a Xamarin client based on a LoopBack API:

1.  Create C# code for the SDK; for example:

    ```shell
    $ cd bin
    $ node lb-xm d:/your-server-app/server/server.js
    ```

    Where `d:/your-server-app/server/server.js` is the full path to your LoopBack application main server script.

    The above command shows an example of running the command directly from the `lbxamarinsdk-generator/bin` directory.
    If you were running the command from another directory, you would instead use (for example):

    ```shell
    $ node d:/loopback-sdk-xamarin/bin/lb-xm d:/your-server-app/server/server.js
    ```

    {% include important.html content="

    You can also run the `lb-xm` command with options, to (for example) compile a DLL, add compatibility with Xamarin-Forms, and so on.
    See the command reference below for more information.

    " %}

2.  The generator will save its output in a directory it creates called `output`, in the directory where you run the `lb-xm` command. 

### lb-xm command

Use the `lb-xm` command to generate a Loopback client in C# based on a LoopBack server API.

The general syntax (when running it in the `lbxamarinsdk-generator/bin` directory) is:

`node lb-xm path-to-server-script [options]`

{% include tip.html content="

By default the SDK generator command will not be installed on your path, so you must either run it from the
`lbxamarinsdk-generator/bin` directory or provide the full path to it on the command line.

" %}

**ARGUMENTS**

`path-to-server-script`

Full absolute path to the LoopBack application main script.
In the [standard project layout](Project-layout-reference.html), `<_app-dir_>/server/server.js`. Required. 

**OPTIONS**

You can provide one or more of the following options:

`**dll**`   
Compile a dll containing the SDK

`**forms**`   
Ensure compatibility with Xamarin-Forms

`**force**`   
Remove unsupported functions

`**check**`   
Check if the SDK compiles successfully as C# code

For example, the following command generates a C# (`.cs`) file:

```shell
$ node lb-xm c:/testServer/server/server.js
```

The following command generates a compiled DLL:

```shell
$ node lb-xm c:/testServer/server/server.js dll
```

The command saves the result in the `bin/output` folder.
