---
title: "3.0 Release Notes"
lang: ja
layout: page
toc: false
keywords: LoopBack
tags:
sidebar: ja_lb3_sidebar
permalink: /doc/ja/lb3/3.0-Release-Notes.html
summary: These release notes describe what has changed in LoopBack 3.0.
---
{% include see-also.html content="
- [Migrating apps to v3](Migrating-to-3.0.html)
- [Change log](http://strongloop.github.io/changelog/) (latest updates)
" %}

{% include toc.html %}

For instructions on migrating a LoopBack 2.x application, see the [3.0 Migration Guide](Migrating-to-3.0.html).

## Installation

See [Installation](Installation.html).

## Changes to strong-remoting

### Serialization of date values in responses

The format of date values has been changed from the output of `.toString()`,
which produces values in local timezone, to the output of `.toJSON()`, which
produces values in GMT.

For example, consider `new Date(0)` returned for `dateArgument`.

In strong-remoting 2.x, this value is converted to the following response
when running on a computer in the Central-European timezone:

```json
{
  "dateArgument": {
    "$type": "date",
    "$data": "Thu Jan 01 1970 01:00:00 GMT+0100 (CET)"
  }
}
```

In strong-remoting 3.x, the same value is converted to the following response
regardless of the server timezone settings:

```json
{
  "dateArgument": {
    "$type": "date",
    "$data": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
  }
}
```

For more information, see [strong-remoting#344](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/344).

### Cleanup in conversion and coercion of input arguments

We have significantly reworked conversion and coercion of input arguments
when using the default REST adapter.  The general approach is to make both
conversion and coercion more strict. When we are not sure how to treat
an input value, we rather return HTTP error `400 Bad Request` than coerce
the value incorrectly.

Most notable breaking changes:

 - `null` value is accepted only for "object", "array" and "any".
 - Empty string is coerced to undefined to support ES6 default arguments.
 - JSON requests providing scalar values for array-typed argument are
   rejected.
 - Empty value is not converted to an empty array.
 - Array values containing items of wrong type are rejected. For
   example, an array containing a string value is rejected when
   the input argument expects an array of numbers.
 - Array items from JSON requests are not coerced. For example,
   `[true]` is no longer coerced to `[1]` for number arrays,
   and the request is subsequently rejected.
 - Deep members of object arguments are no longer coerced. For example,
   a query like `?arg[count]=42` produces `{ count: '42' }` now.
 - "any" coercion preserves too large numbers as a string, to prevent
   losing precision.
 - Boolean types accepts only four string values:
    'true', 'false', '0' and '1'.
   Values are case-insensitive, i.e. 'TRUE' and 'FaLsE' work too.
 - Date type detects "Invalid Date" and rejects such requests.
 - When converting a value coming from a string source like querystring
   to a date, and the value is a timestamp (i.e. an integer), we treat
   the value as a number now. That way the value "0" always produces
   "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" instead of some date around 1999/2000/2001
   depending on server timezone.
 - Array values are not allowed for arguments of type object.

Hopefully these changes should leave most LoopBack applications (and clients)
unaffected. If your start seeing unusual amount of 400 error responses after
upgrading to LoopBack 3.x, then check the client code and ensure it
correctly encodes request parameters.

For more information, see the following pull requests:

 - [strong-remoting#343](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/343)
 - [strong-remoting#347](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/347)
 - [strong-remoting#349](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/349)

### The name "file" is reserved now

The name "file" (and all other casing variations like "File") is a reserved
type now and cannot be used for custom user-provided types. The most notable
result is that LoopBack applications can no longer have a "File" model.

See the following resources for more information:

 - [strong-remoting#379](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/379)
 - [loopback#2554](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/issues/2554)

### New REST adapter error handler

The REST adapter (typically created via `loopback.rest()`) uses a new error
handler implementation that provides more secure configuration out of the box.

In production mode (default):

 - HTTP responses never return stack traces.
 - Bad Request errors (4xx) provide the following properties copied from the
   error object: `name`, `message`, `statusCode` and `details`.
 - All other errors (including non-Error values like strings or arrays) provide
   only basic information: `statusCode` and `message` set to status name from
   HTTP specification.

In debug mode (insecure):

 - HTTP responses include all properties provided by the error object.
 - For errors that are not an object, their string value is returned in
   `message` field.

The default mode is production. Debug mode can be enabled by setting the `debug` param to `true`
via middleware configuration. It is recommended to use environment-specific configuration
to avoid accidentally enabling debug mode in your production environment.

The `error.status` is replaced by `error.statusCode`, which is more descriptive and avoids ambiguity.  
If your application uses `status`, you must change it to `statusCode`.

For more information, see:

- [How to migrate (new REST error handler)](Migrating-to-3.0.html#update-use-of-rest-error-handler)
- [`strong-error-handler`](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-error-handler/).
- [Environment-specific configuration](Environment-specific-configuration.html)
- [Rationale behind the new handler](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/issues/1650#issuecomment-161920555)
- [strong-remoting PR #302](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/302)

## Changes to PersistedModel

### Array input for updateOrCreate function is no longer allowed

Allowing `updateOrCreate()` to accept an array as input would only work when
creating new model instances (not updating them), so this support has been
removed. Use the `create()` function instead.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler PR #889](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/889).

### Full replace vs. partial update

There are two ways to update an existing record (model instance):

 - Update (patch) a subset of model properties only, for example
   update the address field while keeping other properties like email intact.

 - Replace the whole instance with the data provided in the request.

This distinction is important when working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB,
where it's not possible to unset a property via a partial update.

```js
// in database
{ "name": "ibm", "twitter": "@ibm" }

// patch request (user deleted the twitter field)
{ "name": "ibm", "twitter": undefined }

// result
{ "name": "ibm", "twitter": "@ibm" }
```

Three new data-access operations perform a full replace:

 - `PersistedModel.prototype.replaceAttributes(data, options, cb)`
 - `PersistedModel.replaceById(id, data, options, cb)`
 - `PersistedModel.replaceOrCreate(data, options, cb)`

To clarify their behavior, the following methods were renamed:

- `updateAttributes` was renamed to `patchAttributes`.
- `updateOrCreate` was renamed to `patchOrCreate`.

The old names are preserved as aliases for backwards compatibility.

The biggest change is in the REST API exposed by LoopBack. By default, `PUT`
endpoints are mapped to replace methods in 3.0 and `PATCH` endpoints are
introduced to expose the old update/patch methods.

| HTTP endpoint | 3.x method | 2.x method |
|---|---|---|
| `PUT`&nbsp;`/MyModels` | replaceOrCreate() | updateOrCreate |
| `PUT`&nbsp;`/MyModels/:id` | replaceById() | prototype.updateAttributes |
| `PATCH`&nbsp;`/MyModels` | updateOrCreate() | updateOrCreate |
| `PATCH`&nbsp;`/MyModels/:id` | prototype.updateAttributes() | prototype.updateAttributes |

Because this change could be disruptive, we implemented several measures
to simplify the upgrade path:

 - A new model-level setting `replaceOnPUT` that can be used to opt into
  the 2.x HTTP mapping.
 - Both new methods and the model-level setting were back-ported to 2.x,
  allowing applications to opt into the new 3.x behaviour while still
  running on LoopBack 2.x

For more information, see [loopback#2316](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2316),
[loopback-datasource-juggler#788](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/788),
[replaceOnPUT flag](Exposing-models-over-REST.html#replaceonput-flag)
and related documentation.

For more information, see [Migrating apps to LoopBack 3.0](Migrating-to-3.0.html#change-use-of-put-endpoints).

### `PersistedModel.find` provides `ctx.data` in "loaded" hook

In LoopBack 2.x, the "loaded" hook for `DAO.find` method mistakenly
set `ctx.instance` instead of `ctx.data`. This defeats the purpose of the "loaded"
hook: to allow hooks to modify the raw data provided by the datasource
before it's used to build a model instance.

This has been fixed in 3.0 and the "loaded" hook now consistently provides
`ctx.data` for all operations. If you have a "loaded" hook handler that
checks `if (ctx.instance)` then you can remove this condition together with
the branch that follows.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler@30283291](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/commit/30283291?w=1).

### `PersistedModel.create` method no longer returns created instances

While implementing support for promises in `PersistedModel.create()`, we found
that this method returns the instance object synchronously. This is
inconsistent with the usual convention of accessing the result via
a callback/promise and it may not work correctly when the data source generates some fields
(for example the `id` property).

In version 3.0, the API has changed to be consistent with other DAO methods:

- When invoked with a callback argument, `PersistedModel.create()` does not return anything.
- When invoked without a callback, `PersistedModel.create()` returns a promise.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#918](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/918).

### Models with auto-generated IDs reject user-provided ID values

For security reasons, the default value of the config variable `forceId` is set
to `true` whenever a model uses an auto-generated ID. Thus, creating/updating
an instance with a client-provided ID returns an error message like:

```
Unhandled rejection ValidationError: The `MyModel` instance is not valid.
Details: `id` can't be set (value: 1).
```

To disable the check, set `forceId: false` in the model JSON file, for example:

```json
{
  "name": "Product",
  "forceId": false
}
```

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#982](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/982).

## Changes to LoopBack middleware

### CORS is no longer enabled

Two types of applications are commonly built using LoopBack,
and each type has different requirements with regard to cross-origin resource sharing (CORS).

 1. Public-facing API servers with a variety of clients.
  CORS is enabled to allow third-party sites to access the API server
  that's on a different domain.

 2. API / single-page application (SPA) sites where both API and the SPA client are on the same domain
  and the API is locked down to serve only its own browser clients, so CORS is disabled.

By enabling CORS by default, Loopback 2.x made API+SPA sites vulnerable by default.

Strong-remoting 3.x removes the built-in CORS middleware and makes
the application developer responsible for enabling and configuring CORS.

{% include note.html content="This change does not affect LoopBack applications scaffolded by a recent version of
StrongLoop/LoopBack tools, as these applications don't rely on the built-in CORS middleware and configure CORS explicitly in `server/middleware.json`.
" %}

For more information, see:

- Strong-remoting [pull request #352](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/352) and
[Security considerations](Security-considerations.html).
- [How to migrate](Migrating-to-3.0.html#check-cors-configuration).

### Current context API and middleware removed

The following current-context-related APIs were removed:

 - `loopback.getCurrentContext()`
 - `loopback.createContext()`
 - `loopback.runInContext()`

 Additionally, `loopback#context` middleware and `remoting.context` server
 configuration setting were removed too.

Existing applications using current-context will print the following error message
when they receive their first HTTP request:

```
Unhandled error for request GET /api/Users:
Error: remoting.context option was removed in version 3.0.
For more information, see https://loopback.io/doc/ja/lb3/Using-current-context.html
for more details.
    at restApiHandler (.../node_modules/loopback/server/middleware/rest.js:44:15)
    at Layer.handle [as handle_request] (.../node_modules/express/lib/router/layer.js:95:5)
    ...
```

For more information, see:

- [loopback#2564](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2564)
- [Using current context](Using-current-context.html).
- [Migrating to 3.0](Migrating-to-3.0.html#remove-use-of-current-context-methods-middleware-and-configuration-settings)

### Removed getters for Express 3.x middleware

Express 4.x stopped bundling commonly-used middleware. To simplify migration
of LoopBack 1.x applications (powered by Express 3.x) to LoopBack 2.x (powered
by Express 4.x), we created getter properties to allow developers to keep using
the old convention.

We have removed these getters in LoopBack 3.0.  Here is the full list of
removed properties together with the middleware module name to use instead:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="240">Version 2</th>
      <th>Version 3</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.compress</code></td>
      <td><code>require('compression')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.cookieParser</code></td>
      <td><code>require('cookie-parser')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.cookieSession</code></td>
      <td><code>require('cookie-session')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.csrf</code></td>
      <td><code>require('csurf')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.directory</code></td>
      <td><code>require('serve-index')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.errorHandler</code></td>
      <td><code>require('errorhandler')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.favicon</code></td>
      <td><code>require('serve-favicon')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.logger</code></td>
      <td><code>require('morgan')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.methodOverride</code></td>
      <td><code>require('method-override')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.responseTime</code></td>
      <td><code>require('response-time')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.session</code></td>
      <td><code>require('express-session')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.timeout</code></td>
      <td><code>require('connect-timeout')</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>loopback.vhost</code></td>
      <td><code>require('vhost')</code></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>


We have also removed `loopback.mime`, which was always set to `undefined`.

For more information, see [loopback#2349](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2394).

### `loopback.errorhandler` was removed

The `loopback#errorhandler` middleware was removed.  Use `strong-error-handler` instead.

For more information, see:

- [loopback#2411](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2411).
- [Migration guide](Migrating-to-3.0.html#update-use-of-rest-error-handler)

## Changes to remote methods

### Name indicates whether method is static

In 2.x, the `isStatic` property indicated that a remote methods was a static method
(not an instance method).

In 3.0, the `isStatic` property is no longer used and the method name determines
whether a remote method is static or an instance method.
A method name starting with `prototype.` indicates an instance method (`isStatic: false`),
otherwise (by default), a remote method is a static method.

For more information, see [loopback#2174](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2174).

### Clean-up of API for finding and disabling remote methods

The `strong-remoting` functions `SharedClass.prototype.find` and `SharedClass.prototype.disableMethod`  for looking up and disabling remote methods are now deprecated. They are superseded by `SharedClass.prototype.findMethodByName` and `SharedClass.prototype.disableMethodByName`
where you can pass in a staticmethod or a prototype method name. These new methods will accept a string in the form of "name" for a static method and "prototype.name" for a prototype method.

To find a static remote method:

```js
findMethodByName('create')
```

To find a prototype remote method:

```js
findMethodByName('prototype.updateAttributes')
```

To disable a static remote method:

```js
disableMethodByName('create')
```

To disable a prototype remote method:

```js
disableMethodByName('prototype.updateAttributes')
```

There are corresponding `Model` methods [Model.disableRemoteMethod](http://apidocs.loopback.io/loopback/#model-disableremotemethod) and [Model.disableRemoteMethodByName](http://apidocs.loopback.io/loopback/#model-disableremotemethodbyname)

To disable a remote method:

```
MyModel.disableRemoteMethodByName('my_method');
```

## Changes to LoopBack models

### Undefined model mixins throw an error

In version 2.x, applying an undefined mixin to a LoopBack model generated a warning message,
which you needed to address rather than ignore.
In 3.0 an undefined mixin applied to a LoopBack model throws an error that
your application must handle.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#944](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/944).

### Removed deprecated model events

Version 3.0 eliminates the following deprecated `PersistedModel` events:

* changed
* deletedAll
* deleted

Instead of listening for these events, use [Operation Hooks](Operation-hooks.html) instead,
 notably "after save" and "after delete".

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#965](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/965).

### Model property name with a dot generates an error

When a model property name contains a dot (period) character,
LoopBack throws an error instead of showing a deprecation warning;
for example, `customer.name: 'string'`.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#947](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/947).

### Settings `strict: validate` and `strict: throw` were removed

The configuration of `strict` mode is now simplified to a simple Boolean.
These settings are no longer supported:

- `strict: 'validate'`
- `strict: 'throw'`

Given the following definition of a User model, when a new User instance is
created with extra (unknown) properties:

```js
ds.define('User', {
  name: String, required: false,
  age: Number, required: false
});

var johndoe = new User({ name: 'John doe', age: 15, gender: 'm'});
```

The behavior of `strict: false` remains unchanged and unknown properties are saved along with other properties

```js
// johndoe is created as
{
  id: 1,
  name: 'John doe',
  age: 15,
  gender: 'm'
}
```

Because a non-empty string is considered  "truthy", they share the same
behavior as `strict: true`

The behavior of `strict: true` changes as follows:

**Version 2.x**

`strict:true` was silently removing unknown properties. As a result,
a User instance is created with unknown properties discarded:

```js
johndoe.isValid(); //true

// johndoe is created as
{
  id: 1,
  name: 'John doe',
  age: 15
}
```

**Version 3.0**

```js
johndoe.isValid(); //false
```
In this example, `johndoe` is NOT created.  The create operation fails with the following error:

```
ValidationError: The User instance is not valid.
Details: gender is not defined in the model (value: 'm').
```

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#1084](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/1084).

### Unused User model properties removed

The following properties are removed from the built-in User model in 3.0:

 - credentials
 - challenges
 - status
 - created
 - lastUpdated

If your application uses any of these properties, you must define them in your
model JSON: see [Migrating-to-3.0.html](Migrating-to-3.0.html#explicitly-add-user-model-properties-that-were-removed)
for instructions.

For more information, see [loopback#2299](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2299).

## Other changes

### Node.js versions 0.10 and 0.12 are no longer supported

According to [Node.js LTS schedule](https://github.com/nodejs/LTS/blob/7ab8b0751b568e4af937493a9b94863d00a26be1/README.md),
Node.js v0.10 was supported until October 2016 and Node.js v0.12 until the end of 2016.
There will be no more OpenSSL security
fixes coming to these release lines after they drop from the LTS program.

Keeping support for these legacy versions would be too expensive,
therefore LoopBack 3.0+ supports only Node.js v4 and newer.

See [loopback#2807](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/issues/2807) for
the discussion that led to this decision.

### loopback-datasource-juggler is now a regular dependency of loopback

Originally, LoopBack (ab)used peer dependencies to ensure there was only one instance
of `loopback-datasource-juggler` in the dependency tree, so that there would only be
one singleton instance of the model registry. This was very fragile and problematic in
some edge cases.

In version 3.0, `loopback-datasource-juggler` and data source connectors no longer rely on
a single `loopback-datasource-juggler` instance, which is now a regular
dependency of `loopback`.
The change from a peer dependency to a regular dependency was a change in the
other loopback packages that depend on `loopback-datasource-juggler`.

For more information, see [loopback#275](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/issues/275).

For more information, see [how to migrate](Migrating-to-3.0.html#loopback-datasource-juggler-is-a-regular-dependency-now)

### Use bluebird for promises

LoopBack version 3.0 uses [bluebird](http://bluebirdjs.com/docs/getting-started.html) as the promise library instead of `global.Promise`.
Starting with LoopBack 3.0, the Bluebird API is considered a part of the LoopBack API.
You can use any Bluebird-specific methods in your applications.

For more information, see [loopback#1896](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/1896) and
[loopback-datasource-juggler#790](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/790).

For more information, see [how to migrate](Migrating-to-3.0.html#no-need-to-polyfill-promise-on-node-v010)

### New SOAP connector

In LoopBack 3.0, the `loopback-soap-connector` uses the new `strong-soap` module instead of `node-soap`.
`strong-soap` provides a SOAP client for invoking web services, APIs to convert JSON to XML,
XML to JSON, parse XML, load WSDL, and so on.  It provides comprehensive support for different types
of WSDLs and XSDs and a mock-up SOAP server capability to create and test your web service.

For more information, see the [strong-soap README](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-soap/README.md).

### Changes to LoopBack Explorer

Version 2.x used a fork of Swagger UI for LoopBack Explorer (`loopback-component-explorer`).
While the fork added several enhancements to the original project, we were not able to keep it
up to date with upstream changes. As a result, several important fixes and improvements
made upstream were not available to Explorer users.

LoopBack 3.0 reverts back to using the [swagger-ui](http://swagger.io/swagger-ui/) module.

For more information, see:

- [loopback-component-explorer PR #182](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-component-explorer/pull/182)
- [loopback-component-explorer PR #107](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-component-explorer/pull/107)


## Advanced

This section describes changes that affect only advanced use
of LoopBack and its internal components. Instructions described in this section
are not applicable to typical LoopBack applications.

### `loopback.autoAttach()` removed

Version 3.0 removes the `loopback.autoAttach()` method and the `defaultForType` datasource
option.  Instead of these, use [loopback-boot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/loopback-boot).
For more information, see [loopback#1989](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/1989).

Alternatively, modify your code to explicitly attach all models to
appropriate datasources. For example:

```js
var MyModel = app.registry.createModel(
  'MyModel',
  {/* properties */},
  {/* options */});
app.model(MyModel, { dataSource: 'db' });
```

### `DataSource.registerType()` was removed

Version 3.0 removes the `DataSource.registerType()` method, as it was a deprecated wrapper
for `ModelBuilder.registerType()`.  Now use `ModelBuilder.registerType` directly.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#976](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/976).

### Type converters replace `Dynamic` API

In version 3.0, the `Dynamic` component was replaced by type converters
and a type registry.

Specifically, the following methods were removed:

```js
RemoteObjects.convert(name, fn)
remoteObjectsInstance.convert(name, fn)
RemoteObjects.defineType(name, fn)
remoteObjectsInstance.defineType(name, fn)
```

Two new methods are added as a replacement:

```js
remoteObjectsInstance.defineType(name, converter)
remoteObjectsInstance.defineObjectType(name, factoryFn)
```

<!--
  Where are the API docs for these methods?
--->

For more information, see the API docs and
[pull request #343](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/343)
for more details.

### `Change.handleError` was removed

`Change.handleError()` was removed, as it was used inconsistently for a subset of possible
errors only. All Change methods now report errors via the callback function.

To report change-tracking errors, use
`[PersistedModel.handleChangeError](http://apidocs.loopback.io/loopback/#persistedmodel-handlechangeerror)`. You can customize this method to provide custom error handling for a  model.

For more information, see [loopback#2308](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2308).

### `app.model(modelName, settings)` was removed

Version 3.0 removes the method `app.model(modelName, settings)`.  Instead use:

- `app.registry.createModel(modelName, properties, options)` to create new model.
- `app.model(modelCtor, config)` to update existing model and attach it to app.

For more information, see [loopback#2401](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2401).
