---
title: "3.0 Release Notes"
lang: en
layout: page
keywords: LoopBack
tags:
sidebar: lb3_sidebar
permalink: /doc/en/lb3/3.0-Release-Notes.html
summary:
---

{% include note.html content="
LoopBack 3.0 has not yet been released. These release notes reflect the current state of the project, and may change before release.
" %}

Refer to [3.0 Migration Guide](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html)
for instructions on upgrading existing LoopBack 2.x applications to the new
version.

## loopback-datasource-juggler was moved from peerDependencies to dependencies

Originally, we (ab)used peer dependencies to ensure there is only one instance
of loopback-datasource-juggler in the dependency tree, so that there is only
one singleton instance of model registry. This was very fragile and might not
have worked in certain edge cases.

We have reworked loopback-datasource-juggler and connectors to not rely on
a single juggler instance anymore. As the last step, juggler became a regular
dependency.

For more information, see [loopback#275](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/issues/275).

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#loopback-datasource-juggler-is-a-regular-dependency-now)

## Use bluebird as *the* Promise library

In version 3.0, we always use bluebird as our promise library
instead of `global.Promise`.
We consider Bluebird API a part of LoopBack API from now on,
you are welcome to use any Bluebird-specific methods in your applications.

For more information, see [loopback#1896](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/1896) and
[loopback-datasource-juggler#790](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/790).

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#no-need-to-polyfill-promise-on-node-v010)

## Cleanup in conversion and coercion of input arguments

We have significantly reworked conversion and coercion of input arguments
when using the default REST adapter.  The general approach is to make both
conversion and coercion more strict. When we are not sure how to treat
an input value, we rather return HTTP error `400 Bad Request` than coerce
the value incorrectly.

Most notable breaking changes:

 - `null` value is accepted only for "object", "array" and "any"
 - Empty string is coerced to undefined to support ES6 default arguments
 - JSON requests providing scalar values for array-typed argument are
   rejected
 - Empty value is not converted to an empty array
 - Array values containing items of wrong type are rejected. For
   example, an array containing a string value is rejected when
   the input argument expects an array of numbers.
 - Array items from JSON requests are not coerced. For example,
   `[true]` is no longer coerced to `[1]` for number arrays,
   and the request is subsequently rejected.
 - Deep members of object arguments are no longer coerced. For example,
   a query like `?arg[count]=42` produces `{ count: '42' }` now.
 - "any" coercion preserves too large numbers as a string, to prevent
   losing precision.
 - Boolean types accepts only four string values:
    'true', 'false', '0' and '1'
   Values are case-insensitive, i.e. 'TRUE' and 'FaLsE' work too.
 - Date type detects "Invalid Date" and rejects such requests.
 - When converting a value coming from a string source like querystring
   to a date, and the value is a timestamp (i.e. an integer), we treat
   the value as a number now. That way the value "0" always produces
   "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" instead of some date around 1999/2000/2001
   depending on server timezone.
 - Array values are not allowed for arguments of type object.

Hopefully these changes should leave most LoopBack applications (and clients)
unaffected. If your start seeing unusual amount of 400 error responses after
upgrading to LoopBack 3.x, then please check the client code and ensure it
correctly encodes request parameters.

For more information, see the following pull requests for more details:

 - [strong-remoting#343](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/343)
 - [strong-remoting#347](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/347)
 - [strong-remoting#349](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/349)

## New error-handler for rest-adapter

The REST adapter (typically created via `loopback.rest()`) uses a new error
handler implementation that provides more secure configuration out of the box.

In production mode:

 - Stack trace is never returned in HTTP responses.
 - Bad Request errors (4xx) provide the following properties copied from the
   error object: `name`, `message`, `statusCode` and `details`.
 - All other errors (including non-Error values like strings or arrays) provide
   only basic information: `statusCode` and `message` set to status name from
   HTTP specification.

In debug mode:

 - When in debug mode, HTTP responses include all properties provided by the
   error object.
 - For errors that are not an object, their string value is returned in
   `message` field.

The environment setting `NODE_ENV='production'` is no longer supported,
production vs. debug mode is controlled exclusively by configuration.
Production environment is assumed by default, the insecure debug mode
must be explicitely turned on.

The `error.status` has been removed and will be replaced by `error.statusCode`,
`statusCode` is more descriptive and avoids ambiguity, users relying on `status`
will need to change implementation accordingly.

You can learn more about the rationale behind the new handler in
[this comment](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/issues/1650#issuecomment-161920555)

For more information, see [strong-remoting#302](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/302)
and [`strong-error-handler`](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-error-handler/).

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#new-error-handler-for-rest)

## Full replace vs. partial update

There are two ways to update an existing record (model instance):

 - Update (patch) a subset of model properties only, for example
   update the address field while keeping other properties like email intact.

 - Replace the whole instance with the data provided in the request.

This distinction is important when working with NoSQL databases like MongoDB,
where it's not possible to unset a property via a partial update.

```js
// in database
{ "name": "ibm", "twitter": "@ibm" }

// patch request (user deleted the twitter field)
{ "name": "ibm", "twitter": undefined }

// result
{ "name": "ibm", "twitter": "@ibm" }
```

We have introduced three new data-access operations that perform a full replace:

 - `PersistedModel.prototype.replaceAttributes(data, options, cb)`
 - `PersistedModel.replaceById(id, data, options, cb)`
 - `PersistedModel.replaceOrCreate(data, options, cb)`

We also renamed `updateAttributes` to `patchAttributes` and `updateOrCreate`
to `patchOrCreate` to make their behaviour more clear. The old names are
preserved as aliases for backwards compatibility.

The biggest change is in the REST API exposed by LoopBack. By default, `PUT`
endpoints are mapped to replace methods in 3.0 and `PATCH` endpoints are
introduced to expose the old update/patch methods.

| HTTP endpoint | 3.x method | 2.x method |
|-|-|-|
| `PUT`&nbsp;`/MyModels` | `replaceOrCreate` | `updateOrCreate` |
| `PUT`&nbsp;`/MyModels/:id` | `replaceById` | `prototype.updateAttributes` |
| `PATCH`&nbsp;`/MyModels` | `updateOrCreate` | `updateOrCreate` |
| `PATCH`&nbsp;`/MyModels/:id` | `prototype.updateAttributes` | `prototype.updateAttributes` |

Because this change may be quite disruptive, we implemented several measures
to simplify the upgrade path:

 - A new model-level setting `replaceOnPUT` that can be used to opt into
  the 2.x HTTP mapping.
 - Both new methods and the model-level setting were back-ported to 2.x,
  allowing applications to opt into the new 3.x behaviour while still
  running on LoopBack 2.x

For more information, see [loopback#2316](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2316),
[loopback-datasource-juggler#788](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/788),
[replaceOnPUT flag](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb2/Exposing-models-over-REST.html#replaceonput-flag)
and related documentation.

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#put-methods-perform-full-replace-now)

## Current context API and middleware were removed

We have removed the following current-context-related APIs:

 - `loopback.getCurrentContext`
 - `loopback.createContext`
 - `loopback.runInContext`

Additionally, `loopback#context` middleware and `remoting.context` server
config were removed too.

Existing applications using current-context will print the following error
on the first HTTP request received:

```
Unhandled error for request GET /api/Users:
Error: remoting.context option was removed in version 3.0.
For more information, see https://docs.strongloop.com/display/APIC/Using%20current%20context for more
details.
    at restApiHandler (.../node_modules/loopback/server/middleware/rest.js:44:15)
    at Layer.handle [as handle_request] (.../node_modules/express/lib/router/layer.js:95:5)
```

For more information, see [loopback#2564](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2564)
and [documentation](https://docs.strongloop.com/display/APIC/Using+current+context)

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#the-current-context-feature-was-moved-to-loopback-context)

## CORS is no longer enabled

There are two types of applications that are commonly built using LoopBack,
and each type has different requirements when it comes to CORS.

 1. Public facing API servers serving a variety of clients.
  CORS should be enabled to allow 3rd party sites to access the API server
  living on a different domain.

 2. API+SPA sites where both API and the SPA client live on the same domain
  and the API should be locked down to serve only its own browser clients,
  i.e. CORS must be disabled.

By enabling CORS by default, we were making API+SPA sites vulnerable by default.

In strong-remoting 3.x, we removed the built-in CORS middleware and pushed
the responsibility for enabling and configuring CORS back to application
developers.

Note that this does not affect LoopBack applications scaffolded by a recent
version of `slc loopback` or `apic loopback`, as these applications don't rely
on the built-in CORS middleware and configure CORS explicitly
in `server/middleware.json`.

For more information, see [pull request #352](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/352) and
[Security considerations](https://docs.strongloop.com/display/public/LB/Security+considerations).

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#check-your-cors-configuration)

## Simpler metadata for remote methods

In 2.x, remote methods were defined as:

```json
{
  "methods": {
    "staticMethod": {
      "isStatic": true,
      "http": { "path": "/static" }
    },
    "instanceMethod": {
      "isStatic": false,
      "http": { "path": "/instance" }
    }
  }
}
```

Starting from 3.0, the `isStatic` flag is no longer used and will be determined
from the method name. Method names starting with `prototype.` indicate
prototype methods (`isStatic: false`).

```json
{
  "methods": {
    "staticMethod": {
      "http": { "path": "/static" }
    },
    "prototype.instanceMethod": {
      "http": { "path": "/instance" }
    }
  }
}
```

For more information, see [loopback#2174](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2174).

## Unused user properties were removed

The following properties are removed from the built-in User model in 3.0:

 - credentials
 - challenges
 - status
 - created
 - lastUpdated

If your application is using these properties, then you can define them in your
model json file as follows:

```json
{
  "name": "MyUser",
  "base": "User",
  "properties": {
    "credentials": { "type": "object" },
    "challenges": { "type": "object" },
    "status": "string",
    "created": "date",
    "lastUpdated": "date"
  }
}
```

For more information, see [loopback#2299](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2299).

## Getters for Express 3.x middleware were removed

Express 4.x stopped bundling commonly-used middleware. To simplify migration
of LoopBack 1.x applications (powered by Express 3.x) to LoopBack 2.x (powered
by Express 4.x), we created getter properties to allow developers to keep using
the old convention.

We have removed these getters in LoopBack 3.0, here is the full list of
removed properties together with the middleware module name to use instead:

 - `loopback.compress` - use `require('compression')` instead
 - `loopback.timeout` - use `require('connect-timeout')` instead
 - `loopback.cookieParser` - use `require('cookie-parser')` instead
 - `loopback.cookieSession` - use `require('cookie-session')` instead
 - `loopback.csrf` - use `require('csurf')` instead
 - `loopback.errorHandler` - use `require('errorhandler')` instead
 - `loopback.session` - use `require('express-session')` instead
 - `loopback.methodOverride` - use `require('method-override')` instead
 - `loopback.logger` - use `require('morgan')` instead
 - `loopback.responseTime` - use `require('response-time')` instead
 - `loopback.favicon` - use `require('serve-favicon')` instead
 - `loopback.directory` - use `require('serve-index')` instead
 - `loopback.vhost` - use `require('vhost')` instead

We have also removed `loopback.mime`, which was always set to `undefined`.

For more information, see [loopback#2349](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2394).

## `loopback.errorhandler` was removed

We have removed `loopback#errorhandler` middleware, users should
use `strong-error-handler` instead.

For more information, see[loopback#2411](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2411).

For more information, see [how to migrate](http://loopback.io/doc/en/lb3/Migrating-to-3.0.html#new-error-handler-for-rest)

## Serialization of Date values in responses

The format of date values has been changed from the output of `.toString()`,
which produces values in local timezone, to the output of `.toJSON()`, which
produces values in GMT.

For example, let's take `new Date(0)` returned for `dateArgument`.

In strong-remoting 2.x, this value is converted to the following response
when running on a computer in the Central-European timezone:

```json
{
  "dateArgument": {
    "$type": "date",
    "$data": "Thu Jan 01 1970 01:00:00 GMT+0100 (CET)"
  }
}
```

In strong-remoting 3.x, the same value is converted to the following response
regardless of the server timezone settings:

```json
{
  "dateArgument": {
    "$type": "date",
    "$data": "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
  }
}
```

For more information, see [strong-remoting#344](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/344).

## `PersistedModel.find` provides `ctx.data` in "loaded" hook now

When implementing "loaded" hook for `DAO.find` method, we have mistakenly
implemented a version that sets `ctx.instance` instead of `ctx.data`. This
defeats the purpose of the "loaded" hook, which is to allow hooks to modify
the raw data provided by the datasource before it's used to build a model
instance.

This has been fixed in 3.0 and the "loaded" hook now consistently provides
`ctx.data` for all operations. If you have a "loaded" hook handler that
checks `if (ctx.instance)` then you can remove this condition together with
the branch that follows.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler@30283291](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/commit/30283291?w=1).

## `PersistedModel.create` no longer returns the instance(s) created

While implementing support for promises in `PersistedModel.create`, we found
that this method returns the instance object synchronously. This is
inconsistent with the usual convention of accessing the result via
callback/promise and it may not work correctly in cases where some fields like
the `id` property are generated by the database.

We have changed the API to be consistent with other DAO methods: when invoked
with a callback argument, the method does not return anything. When invoked
without any callback, a promise is returned.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#918](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/918).

## Applying an undefined mixin to a LoopBack model throws an error

When applying an undefined mixin to a LoopBack model, a warning message was
logged regarding the invalid mixin, which needs to be addressed rather than
silently ignored. This has been fixed in 3.0, therefore an undefined mixin
applied to a LoopBack model will throw an error that needs to be handled.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#944](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/944).

## Deprecated model events were removed

The following deprecated model events are now removed. Please upgrade your code
by using operation hooks in its place.

Model events

  * changed
  * deletedAll
  * deleted

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#965](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/965).

## Model property names with dot(s) generates an error

Instead of showing a deprecation warning for model property names with dots,
for example, `customer.name: 'string'`, an error is thrown in 3.0 for
enforcing use of valid model property names.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#947](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/947).

## Array input for updateOrCreate function is no longer allowed

Allowing updateOrCreate to accept an array as input would only work when
creating new model instances (not updating them), so this support has been
removed. Please use `create` function instead (array inputs only worked to
create new instances with this method before). If you would like to perform a
bulk `updateOrCreate`, you could use `async.each` or `Promise.all` to
repeatedly call `updateOfCreate` for each instance.

For more information, see [related code change](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/889) here.

## Settings `strict: validate` and `strict: throw` were removed

We have simplified the configuration of `strict` mode back to a simple boolean
and dropped `validate` and `throw` options.

Given the following definition of a User model, when a new User instance is
created with extra (unknown) properties:

```js
ds.define('User', {
  name: String, required: false,
  age: Number, required: false
});

var johndoe = new User({ name: 'John doe', age: 15, gender: 'm'});
```

 - `strict: false` - behavior remains unchanged and unknown properties are be saved along with other properties

    ```js
    // johndoe is created as
    {
      id: 1,
      name: 'John doe',
      age: 15,
      gender: 'm'
    }
    ```

- `strict: 'validate'` and `strict: 'throw'` - are no longer supported.
  Because non-empty string is considered as *truthy*, they share the same
  behavior as `strict: true`

- `strict: true` - behaviour changes between 2.x and 3.x as follows:

  **Previously in 2.x**

  `strict:true` was silently removing unknown properties. As a result,
  a User instance is created with unknown properties discarded:

    ```js
    johndoe.isValid(); //true

    // johndoe is created as
    {
      id: 1,
      name: 'John doe',
      age: 15
    }
    ```

  **New Behavior since 3.0**

    ```js
    johndoe.isValid(); //false

    // johndoe is NOT created, create operation fails with the following error:
    // ValidationError: The User instance is not valid.
    //   Details: gender is not defined in the model (value: 'm').
    ```

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#1084](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/1084).

## Models with auto-generated ids reject user-provided id values

For security reasons, the default value of the config variable `forceId` is set
to `true` whenever a model uses auto-generated id. It means creating/updating
an instance with a client-provided id will return an error message like:

```
Unhandled rejection ValidationError: The `MyModel` instance is not valid.
Details: `id` can't be set (value: 1).
```

You can change `forceId: false` in model JSON file to disable the check, e.g:

```json
{
  "name": "Product",
  "forceId": false
}
```

## Sugar API `app.model(modelName, settings)` was removed

`app.model(modelName, settings)`, a sugar for creating non-existing model, is
now removed in favor of promoting use of:
- `app.registry.createModel(modelName, properties, options)` to create new model
- `app.model(modelCtor, config)` to update existing model and attach it to app

For more information, see [loopback#2401](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2401).

## `Change.handleError` was removed

`Change.handleError` was removed as it was used inconsistenly for a subset of possible
errors only. All Change methods are reporting errors to the caller via the
callback now.

Use `PersistedModel` to report change-tracking errors via the existing method
`PersistedModel.handleChangeError`. This method can be customized on a per-model
basis to provide different error handling.

For more information, see [loopback#2308](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/2308).

## `loopback.autoAttach` is gone

Back in LoopBack 2.0, we reworked the way how LoopBack applications are
bootstrapped, moved the implementation to a new module called
`loopback-boot` and stopped using `loopback.autoAttach` method and
`defaultForType` datasource option.

In LoopBack 3.0, we have removed these two APIs completely.

For more information, see [loopback#1989](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback/pull/1989).

## loopback-datasource-juggler API changes

### Wrapper `DataSource.registerType()` was removed

`DataSource.registerType()` method was removed as it was a deprecated wrapper
for `ModelBuilder.registerType()`.

For more information, see [loopback-datasource-juggler#976](https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-datasource-juggler/pull/976).

## strong-remoting API changes

### Clean-up of API for finding and disabling remote methods

We are deprecating the `SharedClass.prototype.find` and
`SharedClass.prototype.disableMethod` for looking up and disabling remote
methods in 3.0. They are superseded by `SharedClass.prototype.findMethodByName`
and `SharedClass.prototype.disableMethodByName` where you can pass in a static
method or a prototype method name. These new methods will accept a string in the
form of "name" for a static method and "prototype.name" for a prototype method.

To find a static remote method:
`findMethodByName('create')`

To find a prototype remote method:
`findMethodByName('prototype.updateAttributes')`

To disable a static remote method
`disableMethodByName('create')`

To disable a prototype remote method:
`disableMethodByName('prototype.updateAttributes')`

### Type converters replace `Dynamic` API

The `Dynamic` component was removed in favour of type converters and a
registry.

The following APIs were removed:

```js
RemoteObjects.convert(name, fn)
remoteObjectsInstance.convert(name, fn)
RemoteObjects.defineType(name, fn)
remoteObjectsInstance.defineType(name, fn)
```

Two new APIs are added as a replacement:

```js
remoteObjectsInstance.defineType(name, converter)
remoteObjectsInstance.defineObjectType(name, factoryFn)
```

For more information, see the API docs and
[pull request #343](https://github.com/strongloop/strong-remoting/pull/343)
for more details.

## `loopback-soap-connector` change

In LoopBack 3.0, `loopback-soap-connector` uses new `strong-soap` module instead of `node-soap`.
`strong-soap` provides SOAP client for invoking Web Services, APIs to convert JSON to XML,
XML to JSON, API to parse XML, APIs to load WSDL etc. It provides comprehensive support for different types
of WSDLs and XSDs. It also provides a mock up SOAP server capability to create and test your Web service.
Refer to the Readme `https://github.com/strongloop/strong-soap` for details on `strong-soap`.

## loopback-component-explorer changes

In https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-component-explorer/pull/107, we
started using our fork of Swagger UI in LoopBack Explorer. While our fork added
several enhancements to the original project, we were not able to keep the fork
up to date with upstream. As a result, several important fixes and improvements
made upstream were not available to Explorer users.

In 3.0.0, we have reverted back to using the original swagger-ui module.

See https://github.com/strongloop/loopback-component-explorer/pull/182 for more
details.
